---
layout: post
title: FFX-2
tags: games
---

Yesterday, over many weeks, I finished FFX-2. I remember trying it out years ago and not getting into it - the dressphere and J-pop theme didn't appeal to me. I picked it up again a few months ago and been playing it on my PS2 at my parent's place. I finally finished it yesterday.

I tried to make the run as much spoiler-free as I could - with a few exceptions. I heard people were divided on the game, but that was about it.

For starters, let's start with the positive part of the game - I actually liked the dresspheres. Not being tied to being a mage or warrior or healer, and changing in the middle of battle was pretty fun (minus the long cutscenes, which thankfully you can turn off). Using a dressphere ability to improve that dressphere made a lot of sense. This gets a thumbs up from me.

That about does it for the positive parts.

Let's start with the plot - there isn't one. You start off as a sphere hunter, and then for some reason fiends are attacking villages and there's this vegnagun thing that's tied to some Tidus looking character who isn't Tidus (but he has all of Tidus' moves, and can do the Jecht shot) that is looking for Lenne who looks like Yuna, and for some reason we care because Yuna gets upset that this Tidus-looking-fella had a secret crush on someone that wasn't her. Your aeons make an appearance, but you must fight them for some reason. Two factions at war make peace over a song. There are erotic woman-on-woman backrub and suggestive hot tub scenes. The end.

My favourite Final Fantasy game so far is FFXII. One aspect that I really like about it is you can skip the bullshit. If you played FFX, there was lots of bullshit to get ultimate weapons - the chocobo race, the butterfly minigame, the dodging to 200 consecutive lightning bolts, blitzball. Yes you *can* skip all that, but there are no second-tier weapons. If you want to beat the harder monsters, you either need it or you don't play those characters. With FFXII, there were relatively easy-to-get weapons that weren't the best, but still really really good. You can skip getting the ultimate weapons.

FFX-2 is all the bullshit in a single game. It's a series of minigames that mostly aren't fun. Don't get me started on the wall minigame, or the monkey matchmaking, or finding all those cactuars. They kept blitzball, but it automatically plays for you? The race to the beach was a bit fun and somewhat challenging. As was selling tickets.
